　　　　冲击MBA联考英语，一定要对MBA联考英语语法有清晰的认识。今天为大家总结下MBA联考英语语法|从句变非谓语动词。　　　　　　定语从句变现在分词表主动　　The student who is talking with the monitor is Lucy。/The student talking with the monitor is Lucy。　　A dictionary is a book which gives the meaning of words。/A dictionary is a book giving the meaning of words。　　The man who is wearing a white suit is my friend。/The man wearing a white suit is my friend。　　The bike and its rider that had run over an old man were taken to the police station。/The bike and its rider having run over an old man were taken to the police station。　　Have you ever visited the Great Wall，which attracts thousands of tourists each year？/Have you ever visited the Great Wall， attracting thousands of tourists each year？　　定语从句变过去分词表被动　　This is the pen which was given by my friend。/This is the pen given by my friend。　　The animal that/which is lost is a panda。/The animal lost is a panda。　　　　When you think you know nothing，then you begin to know something。/ Thinking you know nothing，then you begin to know something。　　After we have finished the work，we went home。/Having finished the work，we went home。　　　　　　We used computer in order that we might save time。/We used computer in order to save time。　　I hire a boat so that i could go fishing。/I hire a boat so as to go fishing。　　In order that you may create such a picture， you have to possess certain artistic weapons。/In order to create such a picture， you have to possess certain artistic weapons。　　　　He arrived late so that he missed the train。 / He arrived late so as to miss the train。　　He wrote so carefully that he made no mistakes。 / He wrote so carefully as to make no mistakes。　　　　This is the meeting which will be held next week。/This is the meeting to be held next week。　　　　It is said that our school will be rebuilt。/Our school to be rebuilt is said。　　　　　　It is certain that she will come to the discussion。/Her coming to the discussion is certain。　　　　My idea is that you should make good use of your time。/Making good use of your time is my idea。　　　　I am sure that she will come and join us。/I am sure her coming and joining us。　　He is pleased that he passed a tough test。/He is pleased his passing a tough test。　　以上我们不难发现从句转为非谓语动词形式要遵循的规律有：　　1、形容词性从句（定语从句）提升为动词分词和动词不定式结构时，先行词要在定语从句中充当主语；　　2、 状语从句提升为动词分词和动词不定式结构时，要遵循主从句主语一致的原则；　　3、 名词性从句提升为动名词或动词不定式时，连接主从句的连接词that在从句中不充当成分。　　本文转自，点击查看。　　　　责任编辑：实习生张雅靖