　　When a human likes another human， they hold hands。　　当一个人类喜欢另一个人类的时候，他们会牵手。　　Humans will often walk， sit， or talk while holding hands。 They hold hands with their mate， family， friends， and offspring。 　　人类在走路、静坐或者交谈的时候都会牵着手。他们会牵着伴侣、家人、朋友和孩子的手。　　Humans love to eat sweet and soft concoctions made of sugar and cream。 When it‘s warm， they call it “pudding。” When it’s cold， they call it “ice cream。”　　人们喜爱由糖和奶油做成的又甜又软的调制品。这种调制品如果是热的，他们叫它“布丁”，如果是凉的，他们叫它“冰淇淋”。　　They even love sugar and cream so much sometimes they whip it and put the “whipped cream” on top of their other cream-based sweets。　　他们太喜爱糖和奶油了，甚至有时候会把搅打成掼奶油加在其他奶油甜品上。　　Humans love to “hug。” They embrace each other‘s bodies and it actually produces good-feeling chemicals in them。　　人类热爱“抱抱”，他们拥抱彼此的身体，这还会在他们体内产生快乐的化学反应呢。　　Humans will hug each other for many reasons—love， celebration， sadness， comfort， romance， and even just to say hello or goodbye！ How cute is that？　　人类拥抱的理由有很多——爱、庆祝、伤心、安慰、浪漫，或者仅仅是为了说声你好或再见！多萌！　　Humans often “cuddle，” which is basically just a very long hug。　　人类经常相互“依偎”，基本上就是很长很长时间的拥抱。　　One of the positions of “cuddling” resembles the utensil they use to eat pudding， “spoons，” so they call it  “spooning。”　　有一种“依偎”的姿势和人们用来吃布丁的餐具很像，就是勺子（spoon），所以他们管这个姿势叫“spooning”。　　Humans like interacting with each other so much， they created the internet so they could be in constant contact even with humans who live far away。　　人类超级喜欢交流，所以他们创造了互联网。这样他们甚至能和住得很远的人联络啦。　　They also invented FaceTime so they could not only talk to each other at long distances but also look upon each other’s faces。　　他们还发明了视频通话，这样他们不仅可以远距离说话，还能看着彼此的脸。　　When humans hear “music，”  they often can‘t help but bop to the rhythm。 They call this “dancing。”　　人类听音乐的时候，会情不自禁地随着节奏摆动，他们管这个叫“跳舞”。　　They also “slow dance，”  which involves HOLDING EACH OTHER AND SWAYING。 　　他们还会跳慢舞呢，就是抱在一起慢慢摇摆。　　When a human hears something they think is funny， an involuntary repetitive sound comes from them called “laughter。”　　人类听到好玩的事情的时候，会情不自禁地发出一连串重复的声音，他们称之为“笑声”。　　They also can‘t help but spread their mouth and show their little blunt teeth when they like something， which is called “smiling。”　　他们内心欢心的时候，还会不由自主地扬起嘴角，露出小小的、钝钝的牙齿，他们管这叫“微笑”。　　Humans like human life so much， they spend many hours a week watching other humans act out pretend scenarios of human life on TV， in movies， and onstage。　　人类特别喜欢自己的生活，他们每周都要花好多钟头看电视、电影还有舞台上其他人类表演他们的生活情节。　　They create human “characters，” and people called “actors” pretend to do things as said characters。 Humans become deeply attached to these characters。　　他们创造了人类“角色”，那些叫做“演员”的人来假装扮演这些“角色”。人类还会对这些角色产生强烈的感情呢。　　Humans created soft pads covered in cozy fabrics to sleep in at night， which they call “beds。”　　人类创造了柔软的垫子，上面盖着舒适的布料，晚上用来睡觉，他们管这叫“床”。　　Much like hamsters， humans love soft materials such as cotton and wool。 They snuggle into what they call  “blankets” for comfort and warmth。　　好像仓鼠一样，人类喜爱像棉花和羊毛一样的柔软的东西。他们会蜷缩进叫“毯子”的东西里，舒舒服服，暖暖和和的。　　Humans love water， and gather around shores all over the world in warm weather to stare at it and swim a little ways in。　　人类热爱水，在暖洋洋的天气，人类会聚集在世界各地的海边，就为了盯着水看，再到里面游一游。　　They also dig holes in their backyards and fill them with water to splash around in。　　他们还会在自己的庭院里挖大洞，填满了水，在里面嬉戏。　　Even if it doesn‘t always seem like it， the majority of humans just want to make the world a better place for other humans。　　尽管并不总是如此，但大部分人类都想为了他人，把这个世界变得更美好。　　Research shows most humans are at least trying to do what they think will help everyone else。 The news focuses on the bad eggs because they think it‘s more engaging。 But truth is， humans are innately good， and that just makes them even cuter！　　研究说，多数人都努力在做他们觉得能帮助别人的事情。新闻总是在讲坏蛋们，那是因为他们觉得坏消息更吸引人。但真相是，人类天生是善良的，所以显得他们更萌啦！　　本文选自微信公众号：口袋英语精选　　责任编辑：陈熙