　　Magic， it turns out， is a highly addictive thing – and when it comes to the intricate fictional world of JK Rowling， fans can rarely get enough。　　事实证明，魔法是一种很容易使人入迷的事物，提到J·K·罗琳精心创作的虚构世界，书迷们可能依然意犹未尽。　　To celebrate the release of Fantastic Beast and Where to Find Them， a number of books on the making of the film have consequently been published （just in time for Christmas）， including Ian Nathan‘s behind-the-scenes guide Inside the Magic， and The Case of Beasts， which explores the wizarding world shown in the film。　　为了庆祝《神奇动物在哪里》的发行，许多关于这部电影制作的书籍问世了（恰好及时赶上圣诞节），其中包括伊恩·内森的幕后指南《魔法探秘》以及《神奇动物居住的手提箱》，这些书籍探索了电影中展示的魔法世界。　　We had a look through， to see what we could glean about Fantastic Beats， its cast， and Rowling‘s script。　　我们粗略地翻阅了一下这些书籍，看看从中能收集到哪些关于神奇动物、演员阵容以及罗琳脚本的内容。　　Here are some of the things we learnt：　　这儿有一些我们了解到的情况：　　1.Eddie Redmayne wound up “sobbing” after reading the script for the first time。　　第一次阅读脚本之后，小雀斑激动地“哭了”。　　2.JK Rowling wrote the script in two-day chunks。　　J·K·罗琳两天就写了脚本的很大一部分内容。　　3.Redmayne made sure that Newt’s wand was animal-free。　　小雀斑确定纽特的魔杖不含动物成分。　　4.The crew built 1920s New York on set at Leavesdon Studios。　　全体工作人员在利维斯登工作室搭建了20世纪20年代的伦敦的布景。　　It took just 16 weeks to create Manhattan’s Lower East Side， TriBeCa and the Diamond District in 1926 in a studio an hour north of London。　　在距离伦敦北部1小时车程的一个工作室里，工作人员只用了16个周的时间就创作1926年的曼哈顿下东区、特里贝克地区和钻石区的布景。　　5.Queenie is the most attractive female character Rowling has ever created。　　奎妮在罗琳创作的女性角色中最有魅力。　　She wrote as much in the script： “The most beautiful girl ever to don witch’s robes”。　　罗琳也在脚本中写道：“（她是）身穿女巫长袍的女孩中最漂亮的一个”。　　6.The extras really earned their money。　　群众演员得到了应得的报酬。　　That Fantastic Beasts was set in December， so the cast were dressed up in overcoats， scarves and gloves - and the crowd scenes were shot in August 2015。 Everyone was sweltering， remembers crowd costumer Gary Hyams， and “tended to undo their coats or take their scarves off and tuck them into their pockets。 So we have to make sure it’s all on from the beginning for that take。”　　神奇动物的故事发生在12月份，所以演员们都需要穿上大衣、围上围巾、戴上手套，而群众场景是在2015年8月份拍摄的。每个人都热得难受，扮演顾客的群众演员盖瑞·海姆斯回忆道，“大家都想脱下大衣并摘下围巾塞进口袋里。”　　7.There are a lot of deliberate similarities between Harry Potter and Credence Barebone。　　哈利·波特和科利登·拜尔本之间有许多刻意为之的相似之处。　　Both are orphans， adopted into loveless families and thrown into the paths of a struggle between good and dark magic。　　两个人都是孤儿，都被冷漠的亲戚收养，且都陷入了正义和黑暗魔法的斗争中。　　8.Tina‘s trousers were designed to show that she was a modern， forward-thinking type of woman。　　蒂娜裤子的设计用来说明她是一位时髦又有远见的女性。　　9.The Demiguise was ‘babysitting’ the young Occamy　　隐形兽是小鸟蛇的“临时保姆”。　　Ever wonder why， in Fantastic Beasts， Dougal the Demiguise escaped？　　有没有想过为什么在神奇动物中，隐形兽杜戈尔逃跑了？　　According to Redmayne， in the script Dougal ventures out solely in order to protect the lost young Occamy。　　雷德梅因指出，在脚本中，杜戈尔冒险离开只是为了保护迷路的小鸟蛇。　　10.The chilling MACUSA execution pool was inspired by a Saatchi Gallery installation。　　美国魔法国会中可怕的死刑执行池的灵感来自萨奇画廊的奇特展品。　　According to the film‘s VFX supervisor Christian Manz， the disturbing， memory-absorbing pool seen in the film was designed to resemble a Saatchi Gallery artwork “where there was oil with a perfect reflection on the surface”。　　电影视觉特效主管克里斯汀·曼茨表示，电影中出现的那片令人不安且能吸收记忆的水池被设计成类似萨奇画廊的一个艺术品，“它用油在水面上反射出完美的影像”。　　来源：沪江网校　　责任编辑：陈熙