　　Experts have revealed whether six food staples and supplements really prevent colds and flu。　　专家揭示了六种食物和补品是否真能预防感冒和流感。　　While honey has long been praised for reducing the symptoms of colds， science reveals it does little more than soothe sore throats。　　尽管蜂蜜一直被人们誉为可以缓解感冒症状，但科学家认为它仅能缓解喉咙痛。　　Although an old wives tale claims chicken soup cures a host of ailments， it may simply provide a comforting meal and hydration boost， according to dietitian and British Dietetic Association spokesperson Aisling Pigott。　　还有传统说法认为鸡汤能治愈很多小毛病，但英国饮食协会发言人、营养学家爱斯琳-皮高特说，其实这仅能让你舒服地吃上一顿，补充水分。　　Echinacea 紫锥菊提取物补充剂　　Although often hailed for reducing the severity and symptoms of colds， a 2014 Cochrane review into 24 studies found the flower supplement does not significantly reduce the length of time people suffer with the sniffles。　　尽管很多人认为紫锥菊可以缓解感冒症状，2014年柯克兰的一项针对24个研究的回顾调查显示，利用紫锥菊提取物制作的补充剂不能显著缩短鼻塞病程。　　Ms Pigott claims there is insufficient evidence to recommend echinacea， however， if people wish to take the supplement it will unlikely do them any harm。　　皮高特女士称，没有足够的证据支持人们服用紫锥菊补充剂。但如果人们想要服用，也没什么坏处。　　Honey 蜂蜜　　An old wives tale praises honey for soothing sore throats and suppressing coughs， however， there is little evidence to support this， with many ’pro-honey’ studies being funded by companies with conflicts of interest， according to Ms Pigott。　　传统观点认为蜂蜜可以缓解喉咙痛，还可以镇咳，但这并没有什么证据能证明。皮高特表示，很多赞成感冒时吃蜂蜜的研究都是有利益关系的公司资助的。　　She adds， however， honey is harmless providing people are aware of its high-sugar content and unsuitability to children under one due to the risk of botulism。　　她补充说，在人们意识到它含糖量高的情况下，蜂蜜无害，不过由于肉毒中毒风险，一岁以内婴儿不宜食用。　　Zinc lozenges 锌锭　　Zinc lozenges have been shown to reduce the duration of cold symptoms， such as nasal congestion， coughing and a sore throat， however， dietitian Lauren McGuckin warns many contain high amounts of sugar。　　锌锭可以缩短一些感冒症状的持续时间，比如鼻塞、咳嗽和喉咙痛。但营养学家劳伦-麦古金提醒说，很多锌锭片含糖量较高。　　People may be better off upping their food sources by eating more seafood， lamb， beef and pumpkin seeds。　　人们如果多吃海鲜、羊肉、牛肉和南瓜籽来摄入更多相关营养元素，效果会更好。　　Chicken soup 鸡汤　　Ms Pigott told NetDoctor： ’There is little evidence to suggest that “chicken soup” per se reduces the symptoms of a cold。’　　皮高特女士告诉“网络医生”说：“没有多少证据表明鸡汤本身能缓解感冒症状。”　　She adds， however， the warming and nutritious meal may help restore sufferers’ energy levels， as well as giving them a hydration boost。　　不过，她补充说，喝上热乎乎且营养丰富的鸡汤能给患者补充能量和水分。　　Garlic 大蒜　　Ms McGuckin said： ’Garlic contains a compound called allicin， which has been shown to be beneficial for the immune system。　　麦古金女士说：“大蒜中含有大蒜素，对免疫系统有好处。”　　However， the way in which garlic is processed can affect the potency of allicin。’　　“但大蒜的加工过程会影响大蒜素的功效。”　　She therefore recommends people crush， slice or dice garlic to reap the biggest benefits。　　她建议人们把大蒜压碎、切片或者切成蒜末以获得最大功效。　　A 2015 Cochrane study review also found garlic is effective at treating and preventing sniffles。　　2015年柯克兰的一项研究也发现，大蒜对治疗和预防鼻塞有效。　　Vitamin C 维生素C　　Vitamin C is critical to the proper functioning of the immune system， however， evidence suggests it only reduces the length of colds， rather than preventing them。　　维生素C对免疫系统的正常运行非常关键，但有证据显示它仅能缩短病程，而不是预防感冒。　　Dietitian and BDA spokesperson Amanda Squire still recommends people with colds up their vitamin-C consumption via citrus fruits as these sharp flavours may ease congestion and， when taken with honey and warm water， can be soothing。　　英国饮食协会发言人、营养学家阿曼达-斯夸尔仍建议患上感冒的人们多食用柑橘类水果摄入更多维生素C，因为水果浓烈的味道能缓解充血症状，而且和热蜂蜜水一起服用还能让人感觉更舒服。　　A healthy， balanced diet also gives people’s bodies a better chance of fighting off viral infections， such as colds。　　健康平衡的饮食也能让身体更容易打败病毒感染，比如感冒。　　Vitamin C is found in all fruits and vegetables but is particularly high in citrus， red peppers， berries， kale and broccoli。　　所有的果蔬都含有维生素C，但在柑橘类、红辣椒、浆果、羽衣甘蓝和花椰菜中含量尤其高。　　来源：每日学英语微信公众账号　　责任编辑：陈熙