　　应《中国日报》（China Daily）的邀请，我针对近年来中国留学生的归国热潮做了英文评论，分析了其中的内因和外因。本文发表在2018年5月18日出版的《中国日报》欧洲周刊和非洲周刊。　　　　Job challenges abroad and growing opportunities in China are driving influx of former students　　It‘s increasingly clear that Chinese students prefer coming back to China after they finish their overseas studies。　　In 2017， 480，900 Chinese graduates returned home， according to the latest data released by the Ministry of Education。 In other words， the influx of Chinese students accounts for a majority compared with the 540，000 studying abroad the previous year。　　The United Kingdom， for instance， is the biggest overseas-study destination for the Chinese in Europe。 Four out of five choose to go back to China。　　　Why are Chinese graduates flowing back home？　　The job market of the UK seems unfavorable。 The UK has been undergoing slow economic growth since the global financial crisis in 2008。 It is not easy for either local people or Chinese graduates to find a job。　　Math， engineering or science-related majors may have an advantage in job hunting， while most business students might be turned down in applying for a post in the banking， manufacturing， transportation or real estate industries。　　The chances are slim overall for Chinese job seekers in the UK， since 70 percent of Chinese students there study business。　　Even worse， immigration law works against the Chinese。 I was lucky to get a work permit after graduating with an MBA in the UK when a visa program， Fresh Talent， was applied in 2004， allowing international students to stay in the UK for a year or two。 During the stay， a student outside the European Union could work on a higher degree or find a job。　　The policy was attributed to fast growth of GDP （3 to 4 percent）， low inflation and low unemployment in the UK during the administration of former prime minister Tony Blair。　　However， the subprime crisis smashed the positive situation。 In 2010， the Home Office started to rein in the regulations and laws on immigration。 Two years later， the Fresh Talent visa program was closed。　　The closure of the program has made it hard for Chinese graduates to find a job。 In the UK， those attending one-year master‘s programs dominate the student population from China。 Their visa can be extended no longer than six months。　　That is to say， Chinese students need to get a degree， go through a job interview and acquire a work permit in a year and a half。 In practice， this is almost impossible。　　Apart from the UK‘s slowed-down economy and unfavorable policies， Chinese students have their own disadvantages there。 My own observation is that Chinese graduates do not seem eligible for the job market in the UK due to their difficulty in English proficiency， problem-solving skills and interpersonal communication。 A UK degree may not necessarily secure job placement。　　Most Chinese students have little work experience before they come to the UK。 Time is short for them to equip themselves with a good command of English。 They tend to feel incapable of doing presentations in class。 Applying what they have learned is still a big headache for them。　　Meanwhile， the cultural difference is bigger than any other hardships to endure。 A huge number of Chinese cannot get used to the cultural environment abroad and feel isolated from local people。　　　We cannot ignore the drivers from China that reel in the graduates。　　China has become the second-largest economy in the world， generating millions of job opportunities in such areas as new media， artificial intelligence， e-commerce and new energies。 Talent is badly needed for China‘s ongoing industrialization and urbanization。　　Chinese governments at all levels have adopted a wide range of preferential policies to attract Chinese graduates from abroad。　　A master‘s degree holder will enjoy government subsidies to start up a new company， while those with a PhD in high-tech industries are likely to use provincial or national laboratories for free。　　Moreover， as a developing economy， China has become a global innovation center。　　The UK has slowed down its steps to try new technologies， which creates good prospects in China instead。 The vibrant innovation may help remove red tape in decision-making。　　My UK colleagues and friends are amazed by the high-speed trains in China。 A similar initiative might take years and years of deliberation before being applied in the UK。　　　Interestingly， as individuals， we can enjoy a world-class education abroad and find a dream job back in China。　　Can this be a strategy for us to make full use of the resources at home and abroad to nurture our personal development？　　By Zhao Gang | China Daily Europe | Updated： 2018-05-18 08：50　　（China Daily European Weekly 05/18/2018 page9）　　http://europe.chinadaily.com.cn/epaper/2018-05/18/content_36224778.htm